Sorry back there
John He's not here
Spring Hill Board of Mayor and Alderman
will come to order at 5:45 PM Let the
record reflect that all the members are
present except for Alderman Canari At this
time we're gonna adjourn for executive
session
Then there was a contest did not enter for
me So somebody walks in Yes it's my car
You seen this Get into uh our voting
screen
Board of Mayor Alderman Mayne will
reconvene at six 10 from the executive
session Let the record show that Alderman
Canari is now present Mr Eric d if you
could please lead us in a word of prayer
That's all Bow Father I thank you for the
opportunity Lord to be together again
tonight I thank you God that you've kept
us safe It's been a dicey uh era Few few
days and um I I thank you Lord that you've
kept us safe and you brought us back
together God I just want to thank you Lord
for the attitude of service Lord that we
witnessed over the last few days So many
people have volunteered and given and
sacrificed and put themselves in harm's
way God to serve their community through
the ice and through the storms And I'm
just grateful for that God Ask that you
would help our hearts to line up with
their attitudes and their actions to have
a an attitude of how can I help And I feel
like if we can do that father we will do
uh what you've called us to do which is to
bear one another's burdens and to serve
one another And in that way God we could
serve you God I ask that you would just uh
give blessings tonight Uh direct our
hearts and direct our decisions for your
glory In Jesus' name we pray Amen Mm-hmm
I wonder if we could all
stand for the pledge
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands one nation
under God indivisible with liberty and
justice for all
Thank you Mr Dr Uh looking for a motion on
the agenda Vice Mayor Linville move to
approve the agenda Motion to approve
Second Second by Alderman Murray are there
any edits to the agenda Seeing none those
in favor of the agenda please say aye Aye
Agenda's approved Nine to zero Uh as far
as mayor's comments uh tonight I'm gonna
echo a little bit of what Mr Dr Just said
and I'm I'm sure in acknowledgements other
people say the same things here as well
But um obviously police fire public works
all worked extremely hard over the past
week Uh I also wanna recognize the
administrative staff uh the EOC team uh
the communications team and the utility
plant operators So I've had many many many
comments uh from citizens um commending
y'all for your work uh and wanna make sure
that that's uh heard and understood from
y'all Mr Napier any comments No sir Any
department heads any comments
Acknowledgements from the board All right
Scene None Is there any citizen comment
this evening All right Scene none uh
public hearing items We have none Consent
items Ms Goad please
Consider resolution 26 31 to authorize the
purchase of police vehicles and equipment
Consider resolution 26 32 to approve
renewal of contract for annual plumbing
services Consider resolution 26 33 to
approve renewal of contract for annual
electric service Consider resolution 26 34
to approve renewal of contract for annual
roofing services Consider resolution 26 35
HVAC services Consider resolution 26 36
authorizing the purchase and
implementation of an additional oncall
phone for Spring Hill Water To provide
separate dedication of oncall phones for
water distribution and sewer collections
Consider resolution 26 37 to amend
resolution 24 2 26 to authorize an
additional task order with Thomas and
Hutton for evaluation of a sewer lift
station associated with I 65 interchange
interceptor Project Consider resolution 26
38 to approve recommendation of projects
for the neighborhood sidewalk program for
fiscal year 2026 fall Consider resolution
26 39 to establish performance bond and
establish a maintenance bond for Sanctuary
Bluff Newport Royal Road Consider
resolution 26 to amend resolution 25 1 65
to purchase order in the amount of $7,200
for a total authorized amount of $15,200
Consider resolution 26 44 to approve a
professional services agreement with BTA
consulting for pay plan update conversion
to a step up pay structure
Thank you Ms Goad
I move to approve the consent
Agenda motion by Vice Mayor Linville
second Second by Alderman Murray Please
vote on the consent agenda Consent agenda
is approved nine to zero Previous business
there is none New business Item number one
consider resolution 26 dash 41 to adopt a
fund balance policy and repeal prior
adopted fund balance policies Ms. Holden
please
There have been no changes from um the
work session I will be happy to answer any
questions
Ma'am Any comments Uh vice Mayor Linville
Mayor I make a motion to approve
resolution 26 dash 41 Motion
By Vice Mayor Linville Second Second by
Alderman Murray
Yeah One uh quick comment We uh talked
about this at Budget and Finance advisory
committee today and uh uh unanimously uh
suggested to the board to uh to adopt this
Thank Vice Mayor Any comments or questions
from the rest of the board See none Please
vote on resolution 26 41 Item is approved
90 zero new business Item number two
consider resolution 26 dash 42 authorizing
a true up of fund balance classifications
and reimbursement to the general fund from
the Parkland Commitment for Hurt Road
Parkland acquisition
Mayor I make a motion to approve
resolution 26 dash 42 Motion
By Vice Mayor Linville second Second by
Alderman Merriam Ms. Holden anything
This is what we discussed in the work
session and then I followed up with you
all in email about those details I'll be
happy to answer any questions
Thank you Ms. Holden vice Mayor Linville
uh
Again on this one We uh talked about this
at BAC today and made a unanimous
recommendation to the Board to adopt this
resolution
Thank you vice Mayor Linville Any
additional comments or questions from the
board Please vote on resolution 26 dash 42
Item is approved nine to zero New business
item number three consider resolution 26
dash 43 to approve funds for phase two
Walnut Street skate Park
Mayor make a uh make a motion excuse me to
approve resolution 26 43 to approve funds
for phase two Walnut Street Skate
Park Motion by Alderman Murray second
Second by Vice Mayor Linville Alderman
Murray it's your item
Yeah I just wanted to bring back uh
resolution like I mentioned in the last
meeting uh there was a couple of different
items on there so I wanted to make sure
that we brought back just a single uh item
uh to have before you tonight Uh and I
just wanted to share that um when um
looking at this project um this is
something that we have been uh working on
I guess it started 10 years ago It gives
us an opportunity to finish uh a project
that could have um great impact on our
communities You saw some uh last meeting
who who came out to maybe speak toward it
And so I'm really just trying to make sure
that it's something we want to do that we
uh get it completed And uh I also think
there's some potential um uh additional
revenue that can be brought in from um
tournaments and events and things like
that So um just wanted to share that
Thank you Alderman Murray comments or
questions from the board Vice Mayor
Linville
Uh thank you mayor Um I think this could
be a question for staff Uh I was looking
at the text of the resolution Um it uh
outlines that the $950,000 is coming from
UN-designated and unencumbered funds from
the general fund Is this essentially is
the ask that it would come from unassigned
fund balance
With that language Yes
Okay Um I I think with with it coming from
unassigned fund balance and and even if it
was from Parkland uh the Parkland Fund
that or um allocation that the board has
made um I I we're about to kick off 27
budget cycle We talked about that at BAC
today Um for for a request that um for
requests that's being requested from
undesignated fund balance I think that
needs to be evaluated within the scope of
all the other requests that are being made
before the board Um because we're so close
to that process I have a hard time getting
behind going ahead and putting that in
front of the other things we'd be
considering as well Um so I would be open
to a potential deferral or uh
unfortunately I wouldn't be able to
support this tonight
Thank you Vice Mayor Linville who is first
Alderman Hartwell Alderman Hartwell I am
gonna wait Alderman Fuqua
Thank you mayor Um alderman Murray uh we
discussed a couple of the different things
in uh BAC this afternoon Number one is
that um we are looking out or looking at
closing uh the year in a deficit because
of our recent purchase Um so I don't know
that uh the way that this is written and
where the money's coming from that um it
would be wise of this board to take action
with the way that it's it's written to
echo vice mayor's uh comments in regard to
the the budget season and then even some
requests that I had made um at the end of
BFAC which I'll get into at Round Table Um
I don't wanna vote against this so
probably here in a moment if you do not I
will ask for deferral
Thank you Alderman Fuqua Alderman Hartwell
Thank you I um I wanted to hesitate for a
minute because he and I had been talking
about just how the budgets work in general
Um our last session when we um we're just
wanting to pull it from the current
funding that we had for Parks and Recs or
um it was one section that we were gonna
pull it from but do we I guess my question
is Rebecca do we have a fund where we
could allocate we could pull it from
anything else and say okay well we have
this much we can use let's just say we
wanted to give someone a raise Where would
we get that money from We would have to
pull it out of a general fund right So can
we allocate different things in different
ways where we could say okay this is how
much we can give you This is all we have
to work with right now If we can't pull it
from the the funding that we originally
were gonna pull it from
So that's a loaded question So if if you
were to give someone a raise and it costs
$200 for example typically the department
can find that within their budget and move
things around and say I can do without
this training to cover for this employee's
race So typically it's by amount With this
amount that you're looking at you're not
gonna be able to squeeze it out of current
budgeted items in the general fund And I
think that's why the request is for it to
come out of unassigned fund balance if
that makes sense If that helps
Thank you Ms. Holden Mr Napier to add on
to that if you're okay with that Alderman
Hartwell
Thank you Mr Mayor and Alderman Thanks for
the question Uh the only thing that I
would add to Ms Holden's response would be
that it would be super super rare that we
would ever recommend using operational
money to do a capital project And vice
versa it would be even more rare that we
would use one time money or money that we
would otherwise use for capital projects
to balance the general fund budget So it's
it's rare that I would ever see the two uh
intermingle and and recommend to you
accordingly
Alder Hartwell the floor is still yours
Okay thank you Um this question is for you
with the current um residents that use the
the skate park I know that they're very
hands-on They wanted to grow all the above
and we have a special YouTuber that is
there as well right Um he also probably if
if he's that popular he probably gets paid
for ads and all that good stuff I'm I'm
gonna assume that 'cause I went to
research him and tons of ads popped up So
my question with that would be if he's
benefiting from our skate park we don't
charge him right As what as we would
charge any other resident to reserve um
the pavilion or any of that Oh is is is is
that at all to him or to anyone that uses
it Is there if they he also said that he
um I'm sorry the baby I wanna just go pick
him up
Where is he Hear him Um it's okay Um he's
I'm just reminiscing on his conversation
y'all Sorry He said that he taught classes
as well He's not teaching those classes
for free So a lot of things that they're
doing in the skate park they're benefiting
from it financially but we're having to to
take the L for it not take the L but these
are things that they're supposed to be
expecting They haven't gotten it yet but
they're still pulling at us but they're
not giving back to us at the same time if
that makes sense
So thank you for the question So to answer
the first part of it that I understood um
none of our users are charged to use any
of these parks or the amenities within the
parks It is a benefit that is provided to
the community for them to use at their
leisure So even if you were to rent a
shelter for a birthday party or family
gathering whatever it is there's no cost
for that It's a service the city service
that the city provides to the tax paying
residents of this city So there I'm sure
there are lots of people who do lots of
things in the parks that may or may not
benefit them Um if we know about them if
it is someone asking us permission to do
certain things we do have requirements in
city policies that we follow um to work
with them on that But even at that level
let's say someone was gonna do a soccer
clinic for a week or something like that
we would we would get some information
some things that we need but we still
don't charge for that ability to be able
to do that That goes for our leagues as
well as the individual user
This one
Is there anything else that I did not
cover Okay
Thank you Alderman Hartwell Alderman
Jimenez
Thank you mayor Uh I just want to echo
what the rest of the BAC c board members
said We really need to true this budget up
first to figure out um is there enough
money Are we gonna have the money to
complete some of the projects that are
ahead of this Uh the last thing I wanna
see and this is something that we talked
about at BAC we start a project only to
not end it completed right And so if we
get in a position where we say Hey
$950,000 and we figure out we need money
elsewhere we stop We're $400,000 into it
Now we have a project that's halfway
completed that does more harm than good Um
I want the kids to have a place to enjoy
themselves but we need to make sure that
when we commit to completing and doing
something we're capable of committing and
completing it all the way through Um
there's a lot of other really big items on
this this um that the board has to get
done and these capital improvements that
need to be completed that we voted on as a
board to prioritize And so with that being
said again I want to see this done We just
have to find a way to do it that we're not
stopping other things that we agreed to as
a board to complete first
Thank you Alderman Jimenez Alderman Davis
Thank you mayor I'm gonna echo um what
Alderman and Qua said I want to say yes to
this but I also wanna support um what
we're doing and and make sure that we do
sure up things But I I would love to see
you know I agree with Alderman Jim Menez
as well You know we we need to have this
for the children We this is part of Spring
Hill living having nice parks We don't
wanna put a park together and then halfway
finish it So I do believe we probably need
to consider putting some kind of fund
together at least in the future if not now
because we don't have the funds to do it
That will help us start to finish projects
especially when it comes to things that
our facilities for um the community use So
I want to say yes but right now I don't I
don't feel like that would be the right
thing to do knowing that we're pulling
from somewhere else and I don't I'm not a
hundred percent sure of where we're
pulling from right
Now Thank you Alderman Davis Alderman
Canari
Thanks mayor Um I I'm just going to I'm I
I am also in favor of uh bringing this to
Spring Hill Um uh I think the enjoyment uh
we're we're we did a study a while back
that said that one thing Spring Hill was
missing was kind of things for the kids to
do And this looks like a perfect thing and
it attracts many many teens and many kids
So it's something that really needs to be
done As I I wanna remind the board that um
resolutions can be amended like 23, 1 13
can be amended Amended because when we
drafted it we made a mistake in the
wording We said the purpose was for
Parkland acquisition The purpose was
really to increase the enjoyment of our
community especially the teens So if we go
back and think about why we actually
wanted to buy the land and why we set up a
fund a sinking fund to do that we would
all agree that the purpose behind 1 13 23,
1 13 was the enjoyment of the kids
And that includes modifying what we
already have So my take on it is that
we're missing the boat If we're gonna push
this again kick this down the can down the
road because it's not gonna make it the
next time either we'll find something to
replace it with We have an opportunity and
we have a price Um what we need to do is
amend 23 1 13 to include the words and
modifications to improve because that was
the real purpose of us looking to buy park
land Okay So uh I'm taking that as my take
on this Uh and and as far as uh uh
alderman Hartwell um yes it's true They
make money and they must be like a 10% of
the people who use the park a skate rink
Uh the skate park 90% of them don't make
any money They just go to enjoy it and
it's free So we can't compare apples and
oranges Yeah they make money on it but
they're entitled to do that And according
to what they told us they have volunteered
hours to fix on their own own accord and
put their own time and money and effort
into that Maybe it's not enough to 950,000
but it is enough They didn't have to do it
at all So that's where I go And tonight
I'm voting yes unless it's deferred
Uh vice mayor I haven't had my turn yet so
I'm gonna take it before I go back to you
for the second time Um I just want the
board to recall back in April we said
we're gonna put together a a a reoccurring
CIP process Again we had really gotten
away from that process as a city where we
could sit and plan out our top capital
needs and have a financial plan that comes
with it So in April we tasked staff to get
all of the department needs from all the
various departments pulled together 30
plus projects right We had a special call
meeting in September went through all the
projects went back individually ranked
them staff compiled the rankings came in
25th out of 29 I have not heard anybody
explain why we are now treating this
project separately from the rest of the 29
If you put any value in the planning and
the financial planning of the CIP process
this doesn't need to be deferred This
needs to be voted down I think it's really
offensive that we're taking a a a project
that's ranked so low and treating it
separate from the other ones We don't have
a final financial plan for our top 10
projects including projects that are
mandated to get us out of the consent
order and a sewer moratorium So the idea
that we would take a million dollars worth
of general fund money and allocated to
something that was ranked 24th 24th 28th
25th 23rd 22nd not ranked at all is just
financially reckless My number one CIP
project was outside of the top 10 If I
brought a resolution next month to to fund
it outta general fund balance it should
upset every single one of you and you
should vote it down
I will not support a deferral on this I
will support the feeding this and I will
expect everybody to work collaboratively
so we can plan appropriately We can
financially plan appropriately and we're
all gonna accept the collective group
outcomes whether they meet our individual
needs and goals or not This isn't
deprioritizing parks in any way There's
five projects that we're park projects
that ranked higher than this including
multiple ones in the top 10 We are
investing and committing into parks What
I'm not supportive of doing is ignoring
our planning process ignoring the staff
efforts and running flavors of the day
Vice Mayor Linville if you want to go
Alderman Fuco Do you wanna go Anybody else
Alderman Murray
Thank you mayor Just real quick question
where I certainly understand what you're
saying and I want us to be fiscally
responsible in all that we do and in
especially in the projects that we choose
And I just just wanted to give you some
back backstory It wasn't about
prioritization uh of the the exercise that
we did It was um with funds in uh Parkland
that that's what it was designed uh to
where funds were designed to be pulled
from When we decided to put that money out
of this fund into the general fund was the
only caveat that that was between the two
of them to try to still do a project with
that money So um if if I remember correct
and I correct me if I'm wrong but we saw a
great opportunity to uh move on Station
Hill That wasn't I don't think anywhere
On CSA phase two was a top 10 project
correct It was a $21 million project that
we were placed with a $6 million project
So it was the top 10 project
It was not stated that way when we did the
priority skill uh priority session So I
understand and I think that's great I I I
I believe we made the right call I was
just simply saying that we have some
autonomy with things that we would like to
do If something's gonna save us a lot of
money I'm I'm all for it because it's the
taxpayer's money I'm just simply saying
that this is a project that that did start
Somebody talk about completing projects
What started in 2015 I mean it was gonna
cost 600 and something 637,000 if I
remember correctly when we looked at it in
2022 it's now to 915,000 I'm just simply
saying this is a way to go ahead and
finish something that we actually started
in 2015 and doing it at an amount I
understand it's $950,000 I'm just simply
the reason I brought it forward is because
the next time we look at it should the
board say no the next time we look at it
it's gonna be more than that So that was
my only rationale from it was if we see if
if we have that autonomy if we see
something that could benefit the city via
savings to the city you know we can do
things like that So just wanted to provide
some clarity as to the why
Please vote on resolution 26 43 item fails
two to seven work session item number one
discussion Southern Roots Sewer Reserve
allocation request Uh Mr. Allen
Thank you mayor Uh we have a couple of
these on here tonight Um just wanted to
give you an update and then I believe
somebody representing the applicant is
here to speak as well Uh I wanted to for
you
The opportunity if there's anybody from
Southern Roots come on ahead and make your
way to the podium while Mr Allen's talking
Then
Uh our staff has started reviewing this Um
we've had a few questions been going back
and forth with their engineer Um we expect
to get that resolved and have a
recommendation uh in two weeks at the next
BOMA meeting So
If you wanna identify yourself Yes And um
add any additional uh information that you
sure the board needs And I feel we might
have some questions for y'all
Absolutely My name is Hamilton Brooks I'm
a shop construction Uh I live in Thompson
Station Uh Dr McKitrick uh is the owner of
the Hopeful Future Southern Roots
Endodontics And so I've come up here on
behalf of her in the past And uh just
wanted to use this as an introduction
We've got Dr McKitrick we've got our
engineer Tim Little uh we also have Emma
Copeland uh who is from our architecture
team And then uh Dr McKitrick husband and
their three children are here as well
So
Dr McKitrick
Yes My name is Dr Catherine McKitrick I am
the owner of Southern Roots Endodontics Um
been a member of our community here for
about six years My home is about seven
minutes from the practice So really hoping
to you know really further integrate our
family into the community um and hoping
that we can get a positive positive
resolution on this hopefully as quickly as
possible as um you know the project's been
in process for for quite some time and
really hoping to open our doors and be
able to serve the community um from our
dental standpoint
Thank you Anything else from y'all's end
comments or questions from the board Let
me start off with a couple what what are
you um bringing with this project that's
otherwise not available in Spring Hill So
as we look at you know our sewer capacity
we have a limited amount of capacity to
allocate Um I think this board has you
know individually and collectively in the
past expressed that uh we we wanna hold
onto those reservations for things that uh
are unique and add value into the
community Mm-hmm  Um
obviously uh accessibility to healthcare
is is one of those things but um talk to
us about what what it is that would be
added value to the citizens by giving you
this allocation
So as an endodontist I specialize in root
canals which if any of you have ever had
one we're not always people's favorite Um
but there's only 3000 endodontists in the
country as a whole So we are able to
provide um pain-free um root canal
procedures for patients that you know may
not otherwise have that ability Um yes
general dentists can provide root canal
procedures which is um very common However
as an endodontist I have an additional two
years of training beyond um dental school
in order to provide the service for
patients So we see difficult cases we see
advanced treatments um we do some surgical
root canal procedures So it's um a very
specialized niche um group of people that
you know allow that can provide this
service to our citizens
So we do already have an endodontist in
town Mm-hmm  I mean is that
practice at capacity What is it that makes
you think there's enough patient volume
for go for to go around Yeah great
question Where where are you practicing
now Where are you drawing patients from
now
So I was practicing in Hendersonville I'm
currently practicing in South Carolina as
I'm waiting for my hopeful practice to
open So I work um Mon Tuesday through
Thursday and I stay the weekend in South
Carolina And then I work Monday through
Thursday and I fly back to Spring Hill to
spend a four day weekend with my family um
which I have been doing since July Um so I
will be bringing patients in Um as I said
I did work I worked in Cool Springs for a
little bit and then I worked in
Hendersonville So um you know obviously
Spring Hill is growing We all know this
And there's more general dentists that
have come in Primarily my referrals come
from general dentists so you know
relationships with those dentists to get
referrals to the practice
Comments or questions from the rest of the
board Alderman Warner uh thanks for coming
today and uh appreciate this and your
service Uh when did you start this process
of uh attempting to start the business
here in Spring Hill
So I signed a lease in April of 2025
Okay Um and what drew you to Spring Hill
specifically
My home is here We're setting down roots
here Um my daughter plays softball for
Spring Hill Little League I coached her
for four seasons Um my husband is a den
leader through um the Cub Scouts of
America boy Scout um sorry scouting
America Um so I mean just had roots here
Our children go to school at Heritage
Elementary so just really trying to
continue to lay down roots and make Spring
Hill our community
Very good Thank you Mm-hmm
Alderman Fuqua
Thank you mayor Um if if the lease has
been signed to um since April why the
hesitation on um business license and
executing the dream and vision So
We've been working with I've been working
with my architectural team during that
entire time Um it started just with a
dental development company kind of
hammering out floor plan details getting
the architectural team on board and then
just kind of working through that process
to have our floor plan and all of the
engineering and stuff to go through And
then um our permit was submitted uh
September 23rd I believe
Um very good I will take that into
consideration Um one of the things that I
want you to be aware of with the sewer
moratorium that the city is experiencing
now we have uh a reservation capacity
which is what you're asking for Yes sir Uh
one of my mindsets with this is we're
gonna have a lot of requests and a lot of
denials And to the mayor's uh point access
to healthcare is is certainly something
that should be considered However me
individually have a great deal of concern
uh whether or not the reservation exists
And Allen that's not a a comment towards
in any negative way towards your team and
your research However uh the largest bit
of comfort room that we can have matters
If I give a a voting confirmation to allow
you what prevents me or gives me any
authority towards cease to uh look at it
I'll consider your investment since April
really considering the our real capacity
to the sewer system
Alderman Davis Thank
You mayor Thanks for coming by or coming
to us for this And um yeah this is gonna
be a hard decision because what comes next
is a great question If we say yes to you
then who else is gonna come next So as the
mayor said we have another uh how do you
say endodontics Did I say that right
Endodontics
Yes Endodontics um uh dentist here in the
area And you said you're working primarily
in South Carolina right now You have some
people in Cold Springs who you've worked
with dentists I presume What is your
marketing plan What have you done right
now to secure business in our area and
this surrounding area that you have
actively been doing Because if we are
going to give this to you we definitely or
I definitely want it to be a benefit to
our citizens right But also that means
you've gotta get out there and make sure
everybody knows about you for sure Um
because we're giving you the little bit of
capacity that we have Um so what's in your
marketing plan What have you done What
have you done to already um reach out and
how many dentists do you have that are
committed to referring you at this point
So I've maintained a lot of those um
relationship that I relationships that I
had established Um there's some providers
with Aspen some heartland some of those
bigger group kind of corporate dental
entities um that are in town Um I've like
I said kept those contacts but we've
unfortunately been delayed you know a few
times And so it's kind of hard you know
they've had to find other providers in the
interim um in order to have their patients
have that care And you know when I was
practicing in Cold Springs yes there's an
endodontist here in Spring Hill um but
ultimately patients are looking for you
know who takes my insurance who who has
excellent reviews And um the practice that
I'm at in South Carolina right now I mean
we're getting stellar five star reviews
People wanna go to a place where they feel
welcome where they feel feel cared for
where they're um you know it's again it's
a specialty practice
So we have state-of-the-art equipment and
I have not visited the practice here in
town Um but I have been a member of our
community I have been a member of the
ENDODONIC community I haven't met this
person to know even you know kind of where
they stand in the community So I mean I my
plan is once I have a date to open then I
can really kind of push forward with that
marketing plan And yes it includes feet to
the pavement visiting those offices
talking to those doctors I have been
practicing for eight years so I'm not a
new provider You know people are looking
at how long does it take to to get the
service You know nobody wants to be in the
dental chair for three hours plus So I
mean I I bring a lot of skill a lot of
experience um to that
But as far as you know actively being able
to market root canals are an emergency
based procedures People wanna be seen
today they wanna be seen tomorrow they
wanna be seen next week And if I go out
now and say I'm opening a practice in
Spring Hill in six months they look at me
and go that's nice You know come back in a
come back when you're a month from opening
come back when when you can really serve
my patients So yes I've maintained those
contacts but you know nobody's like
knocking down the door at the moment
because there's no opening date
I would like to see when you come back how
you um are different different from the
current doctor we have here and can
benefit our community more So and and what
edge you will you would have that's
different um that would be worth that
sewer capacity
So one of the things that I am capable of
doing and again I don't know for sure but
I do have IV sedation certification so
that's something that not a lot of
endodontists do possess Um so that's an
additional service that we can provide in
our office that most I know of one
endodontist and um like the cook uh yeah
Cookville area that provides that service
Otherwise there really aren't any So
that's one addition that we can provide
and with our practice
Thank you Alderman Davis vice Mayor
Linville
Uh thank you Mayor Um but thanks for being
here tonight Uh I'm a fellow small
business owner and so uh understand uh the
financial risks that it takes to like go
out into business and make financial
outlay Yes Uh so I fully understand like
position you find yourself in Can you
describe like what has the financial
outlay been so far for uh anticipating
opening up this space Meaning roughly
meaning
What do you mean Like how much money Yeah
That we've invested Yes Um roughly $40,000
I have a business loan but I can't tap
into that business loan until we've signed
a few more um mm-hmm  You
know actually get the process going So yes
that's been money out of my pocket Um the
40 to $50,000 about the other thing about
me working in South Carolina it's purely
out of necessity It's not out of desire Um
when I left the practice in Hendersonville
I have a non-compete that prevents me from
working pretty much in the greater
Nashville area Um when I was negotiating
to get out of that non-compete what that
negotiation looked at was a bubble in
Spring Hill that's about a two and a half
mile radius So my current space is in that
bubble So if this is voted down which
hopefully isn't um you know then I have to
go back outside that radius
And that pushes me basically south I can't
go anywhere maybe into Kentucky but I
don't wanna drive to Kentucky  I
mean I wanna be seven minutes from my home
I wanna be home for dinner I wanna I wanna
be a softball coach again I wanna be able
to do those things So I mean you've heard
my son in the background you know he's
three I've been away for six months It's
really not fun So it's again not not out
of choice it's strictly out of necessity
And thankfully I've had the opportunity to
be able to do that and continue to pay the
bills that come up with the attorney fees
and the architectural fees and all the
other things that come into opening a
small business
Yeah I can't imagine wanting to fly to
South Carolina from Spring Hill unless
it's absolutely necessary and there's a
compelling reason So um with the lease
that you have in place right now um would
would it be essentially something you're
locked into if there this wasn't approved
or is there an out in the lease
I mean there is an out in the lease Okay
For you know not being able to use the
space
For it's intended Yeah Understand the the
financial business risk that you're going
through Um I do appreciate that you're a
SpringHill citizen who's wanting to invest
in the community So that'll wife heavily
in my decisions And thank you for being
here
Thank you Vice Mayor Linville Otterman
Jimenez please
Thank you mayor Um it it's been said over
and over We have this little bubble of
capacity that we have to be protective of
Right But you've said a couple things that
tells me even though we have to protect
this if I'm gonna give it to anybody
you've you've mentioned some qualities of
a person that I would give it to such as a
resident here a person that contributes to
the community a person that gives back
right Um being rooted within this
community if I'm gonna give anybody
something that I have that I desire and
and I hold near and dear to me it's gonna
be someone that also contributes to the
things that I get to do here Um I don't
know if you mentioned softball because you
knew my passion with softball  but
you hit a chord with me right Um and I get
listen that you're going to South Carolina
outta necessity to feed and provide for
your family
Um I can't say me myself wants to I can't
approve this on my own right But if I was
to make a determination on who I thought
would be a person that's a good candidate
for what it is that we possess here to me
you rank high on that list Um I'm not as
concerned with the competition 'cause
let's face it I run a mortgage company
there's tons of competition here Should I
be put outta business because I can't have
my PI just moved to a different building
My building was already built but I just
moved to a different building I don't ever
want to find myself in a position where
I'm outed from the community simply
because the practice I wanna do is no
longer approved here Right Um that being
said again I get there's other however you
say this difficult word and I get that
you're not a person most people want to
see but maybe you're the best person for
that position Maybe the person that's here
is second rate or maybe they're the best I
don't know What I do know is you live here
you desire to reinvest here you pay taxes
here you spend money here Uh the city is
benefiting by you being here We're not
benefiting by you being in South Carolina
All that to say these are the type of
people I wanna see be successful in our
community
Thank you Alderman Jimenez Alderman Canari
Yeah Thanks Excuse me Thanks mayor Hello
This is uh a question for Mr. Allen Uh the
applicant's uh letter the last paragraph
says that if a five day patient week is
considered this would be an average uses
of just over 20 gallons per day assuming a
four week month has anybody on your staff
checked it or agree with it
That's one of
The things that we're discussing with them
So um yes we're checking it and we're
gonna discuss that
You you think it's you think it's
reasonable
Well one of the concerns that we have
generally as we look at not just this
particular one but just globally with a
variety of different meetings and requests
that are going on is generally I always
try and operate under the principle of
don't put anything in place that you can't
actually enforce And this certainly seems
to be falling uh into that realm of
discussion internally with us And so how
do you regulate a four day work week
versus a five day work week versus
averaging these things and looking at so
we are uh preparing some stuff to send
back to their engineer to Mr. Little and
talk a little bit about uh clarifying some
statements back so that we can get this
more on something that's a little more
palatable Right I I have some reservations
about us making a recommendation to the
board based on a possible four day
scenario versus a five day scenario We
just need to know what the scenario is
that we're planning and projecting for and
make sure that we've got enough there to
cover it Um and so we'll we will get
that's something that we need to get work
out before we come back with a formal res
res recommendation to you guys But
If I'm if I'm mistaken correct me but this
would be true for any applicant that runs
a business There's no way of enforcing if
day four days five days six days or seven
days you look at the hours that are on the
door that says we're open from nine to
five
Which is why in the legal framework that
we established in the moratorium we
required actual flow monitoring to go
along with it Okay So there is uh trust
but verify principle in place Yeah Legally
So we we do we do plan to put a meter on
these
It's very challenging in this situation
John I mean you're talking about a
multi-story multi-tenant building with one
connection So one of the conversations
we're gonna have to go back and check on
is we need to look at master meeting on
water versus potential sub-metering right
And we're likely gonna have to put
something in place with them where we're
gonna have to measure uh potential
submeters on sub spaces to be able to
measure out what's already there and
already been allocated in the system
versus the new use being added onto it to
measure the difference Um you know we've
got a number of folks on my staff looking
at the specifics on that that we're trying
to work through
Okay So again this isn't this isn't unique
This situation's gonna come up again And
from some of the comments I heard from the
board I'm wondering why we're even even
entertaining any requests because it
sounds like between not giving up any of
our reserve and not being able to account
for what's being monitored or lack of
monitoring why are we even entertaining
Why why don't we just stick to the
moratorium and say nobody has a a a an
application in because we're here's a
here's a health provider that was saying
Hey let's take a look at this There's only
one other provider in Spring Hill I guess
the question I have is we're asking the
wrong doctor uh how busy she's going to
become We should be asking the other
doctor how busy they are or he or she is
and maybe googling them and finding out
some of the comments that they have for
their practice before we start hammering
on this this applicant who seems to be a
resident and a a a citizen and giving back
to the community her husband and her
family
So I guess I'm confused either we're gonna
either we're gonna entertain these and
decide whether an applicant is uh uh can
get a a dispensation or or not If we're if
we're going to talk about well you know we
got this capacity we've gotta hang on to
it Well we have criteria set up I thought
and one of them is uh healthcare So I
don't see why we're questioning how many
of these we have The city's growing
evidently large enough to get Tri-Star
another hospital I know people per perk up
when the word Tristar comes up But hey you
know so if we're big enough for that and
you're right you're right doctor dentists
are I mean they're like they're like
pumpkin seeds They're growing Every place
you look is another dental office So these
people have to refer to an orthodontist
somewhere And so uh you got my vote
Vice Mayor Linville I'm sorry Alderman
Hartwell Have you gone Alderman Hartwell
Thank you mayor This question is for Dara
Ms. Sanders and again I'm business owner
Just playing devil's advocate asking this
question If she were to find a location
that was a previous doctor's office would
there any would would there be any
question at this point
Um the path forward would definitely uh
have fewer hurdles I'll say that Um so
Ordinance 25 29 was written to say that
development services particularly the
codes division may issue a tenant
improvement building permit Um uh as long
as we are able to confirm that the
proposed use the sewer demand associated
with the proposed use is equal to or less
than the previous use in this case there
is no previous use to the space because
there was no previous tenant And so that's
where this hurdle um uh has occurred for
for this particular tenant space
So if we were to or if you doc were to
find a a um temporary spot until our
moratorium is all laid out mm-hmm
And then go back to your
current builder and say Hey we're ready to
go If it's still available we'd love to
make this our our home Mm-hmm
And you have time to build
your business at that at that time too
That's always an option Um alderman Canter
Perry when we this is for you sir When
things will continue to come to us we
can't ignore it if someone is putting it
on the agenda for us to talk about it We
we wanna give our citizens the time to
express how they feel right So I'm
thankful that you came to us and and told
us She she's just one of many that are
brave enough to come up here and say and
what what she feels and what she wants
Um we're gonna have to turn down some we
we're not gonna put them in place of
others You know you're number one you're
better than the other Obviously we have to
keep it black and white and say this is
where we are This is what this is what our
CIP has said we're gonna do and we have to
follow it If we're all in the same on the
same path and and look in the same way
then that's how we have to do it But you
can always get something temporary That's
what I would do
Thank you Alderman Hartwell can we if you
care to respond go ahead
Yeah Well uh not only am I you know
supportive as her husband but I will be
the practice manager when the when the
office opens And I think something that's
getting downplayed a little bit is that we
have one office here in Spring Hill I
think you're speaking about one that's in
North Spring Hill It's New York Thompson
Station So again it's a mostly an
emergency based business It's not like a
standard general dentist who sees a large
amount of people during a day They see
dynasty between five 10 people a day max
And if they have some extra space they fit
in those emergency patients So anybody in
Spring Hill who has an emergency eon Lee
um it's a terrible thing and you want it
done today Well if that one in Spring Hill
is full up then the next one is north and
then just keeps going north and north and
north
So when you get up into Brentwood and
Nashville you have many choices And here
in Spring Hill we don't it's one and then
it's then you may have a 45 minute drive
Again you're in pain You're you want to
you wanna be out of it as soon as possible
Now in terms of being able to do a
temporary thing we're talking about um
buying uh dental chairs having people come
in and structurally make sure the building
can handle microscopes Um all that's a
huge expense And to move it is not not
something somebody would think about on a
whim You know that would be a permanent
change to either upgrade your office and
or move not necessarily just wanting a new
building or to upgrade It would be it
would be a massive undertaking to to
switch once uh you were to set uh that
second office Yeah
And sorry if I may um our company does 15
plus dental practices a year from a
construction standpoint along with with
many other market segments But because of
the timeline that I've been doing that
I've become very ingrained in the dental
community Everything from dental specific
CPAs financial advisors architects uh and
healthcare commercial real estate focused
companies There are very very few if any
former dental practices that are just
waiting for a dentist to come in and take
that over Those things are snatched up
immediately because of the advantages that
they offer The med gas is roughed in the
plumbing's roughed in slight modifications
for the specific equipment But from a
temporary solution that's that's probably
next to zero of that space being there
that is available to receive the dental
equipment Um then in conjunction with the
cost that that would require to set up a
temporary practice of which is a landlord
even going to take a short term lease on a
dental space Um so what I've seen in the
market is dental practices aren't just
sitting there and if they are they're
snatched up immediately which makes a
temporary solution very very hard to solve
Thank you for what it for what it's worth
I used to work for a national uh pediatric
DSO and and you're correct Um you you
build dental spaces from the ground up or
or you get a ti improvement You don't walk
into one alderman Linville excuse me vice
Mayor Linville
Thank you mayor Um Mr. Carter this is
question for you Um this is the first one
of these we've considered And so is there
anything that the board should be aware of
as far as like our standard of review and
how an approval might impact later
judgements that we might pass
I think as a legislative body of the city
you have judgment about how you want to
use your reservation which I understand is
what a hundred what exactly is thousand
A hundred thousand
Gallons A hundred thousand gallons So
hundred thousand gallons a day on average
So I think you have plenty of discretion
how to utilize that
Okay Thank you
Alderman Davis
Thank you mayor I just wanna reiterate no
I seem hard on that 'cause sometimes I
come across with the marketing but I too
am a small business owner and I did have
the challenge of trying to find a place
and and mine's not as intricate as yours I
just need desks And I do know that there
there's a challenge trying to find a place
in Spring Hill Um and I do favor the fact
that you're you're a healthcare provider
and it's you are a person that's
contributing to our community And there is
only one other doctor that does this in
our area and we are growing So I am gonna
take all that into consideration 'cause
that does mean a lot to me Uh so I just
wanted you to to have that one tip
Thank you Alderman Davis Alderman Jimenez
Thank you mayor Uh I want to toss this out
for us to take an under consideration I
think this is the most overlooked part You
signed a lease prior to the moratorium
taking place Yes sir You spent 40 plus
thousand dollars on a vision this morning
My daughter cleaned a room with the intent
If I cleaned my room I get to go outside
Right She cleaned it If we said no we
would've shattered every vision everything
we taught her That is right That to me is
the most important thing when we take into
consideration of where we're gonna direct
this This is a vision her and her family
had Was that me Oh this one's phone I'm I
thought I heard feedback Sorry  Um
this was a vision her and her family had
prior to us running into a wall that we
can't move We have a way to solve a
problem and create a vision that comes to
reality
When we look at considerations we look at
the fact that this family spent this money
spent this time took this vision and sat
around their dining room table talking
about their future By the way that's not
gonna move quickly It's not like they're
selling mattresses right They're not going
in and saying load 'em up up it failed
Take 'em out to to Mayor Matt's point or
Mayor Fitter's point it takes a lot to
build this that tells me there's
commitment here We have to look at the
fact these individuals did this prior to
the moratorium taking place They invested
money prior to this taking place This
building was constructed prior to this
taking place even though it wasn't built
out We're impacting more than just her
income We're impacting the landlord's
income We're impacting the management
company's income Are we gonna sit which I
know we can't fill every building here in
Spring Hill but are we gonna sit with an
empty building and say sorry landlord no
money for you The businesses that want to
move in there they're just not good enough
Or are we gonna take action and honor some
of the things that we should as
individuals and say Hey this family had a
vision and they check all the boxes
Whatever those boxes may be let's help
make this a reality So that's my stance is
is very clear on where my direction of
this is gonna be
Thank you Alderman Jimenez Alderman Murray
Yes Thank you mayor Um I think Alderman
Jimena has summed that up very well Uh I
appreciate the fact that you live here in
Spring Hill Appreciate that you're heavily
involved in um softball I have a
unfortunately an 8-year-old who's gonna be
trying out in a week or two Um and uh I'll
just leave it at that So uh  But
but I appreciate um your commitment to
Spring Hill and certainly that's something
I consider Uh it was it was just shared
that this this all started prior to the
the moratorium Um and I'm sure for a
number of reasons uh you know it it's
still going on So I just want you to know
for me I mean I take that into
consideration I certainly appreciate your
commitment to Spring Hill and um I I
believe I believe it's okay to have
multiple uh I won't I won't pronounce it
right Whatever you do doc
Uh I won't I won't pronounce it right
Whatever you do doc I think it's more it's
good that you there'd be more one of you
Uh uh but most importantly you're you're
one of us Uh you live here you're raising
your family here And um real quick just to
question Dan uh the on the chart the 240
gallons per day and then I see that it
full build out goes to like four 40 So
technically o obviously that that moves
from 10 to 20 I mean that that moves in in
accordance with as the business grows is
what I'm understanding And excuse me is
that and is that how we're looking at this
projected calculation for gallons per day
We will work with the applicant to project
for their full build out That way they can
uh if the board chooses to do it um they
can have their full business plan
accounted for You know you gotta be
careful she's already got a loan in place
So you know I would be very leery of us
saying uh yes but this much versus that
you only get to do this many seats versus
that seats I we need to get apples to
apples on the allocation and make sure
we're measuring it right And then give
them clarity so that they can go execute
and do what they need to do
Yeah I I completely agree I just had a
question about it I just didn't know if
that how that was kind of set up And so uh
but thank you for what you do
Thank you Alderman Murray if I may Yes
ma'am go ahead I
Would like to emphasize part of the reason
that Mr. Allen and development services
reached out to us was we submitted for
building permit prior to the sewer
moratorium going into place And I'm sure
you've heard that plenty I'm just trying
to make sure she's getting everything
accounted for And the second point is you
ask what's different about Dr McKittrick
When I had to share with her that her
building had to be stopped and would not
be reviewed by codes she thanked me for my
hard work and for pushing to and get this
taken care of That is a compassion that
does not come often And I think it speaks
to how she will treat her patients and
your citizens
Thank you Any other uh alderman Fuquay
Sorry when was the original application
made
September 23rd
And it was delayed What were
The calls No uh my understanding with most
city submittals and building reviews it
takes approximately a month for the first
review Before we receive any initial
comments
Been done Ms. Sanders
Alderman Fuquay Um yes So the reason so
they made their application for the tenant
improvement building permit the week
before the board of Mayor and Alderman
passed the resolution temporarily
suspending the issuance of permits So they
were caught up in that temporary pause
while the city assessed our sewer sewer
demand sewer commitments and sewer
capacity availability Um uh during the
pause um applicants were given the option
of either withdrawing pausing or allowing
the the uh review to continue at their own
risk My understanding based on an update
from my staff recently was that the uh
review has been completed Uh I take that
back The review has been completed However
there were additional um uh uh changes or
improvements that needed to be made based
on building code and fire code's
requirement for ingress and egress
Yes we are making coordination efforts
with the other tenants to alleviate any
egress issues
Alright thank you
Anything in closing from y'alls then
I have something to say So um I I guess it
should be the time to just put everything
out on the table Uh I don't we've been
discussing this If if this doesn't go
through we may not be able to stay in
Tennessee Um okay I won't be able to be a
softball uh spring Hill uh girls softball
coach and I won't be able to be a a wee
blow den leader here in uh PAC 25 here in
Thompson Station So I mean not only will
our family be affected but I mean the
community will be affected And uh I don't
know about the other applicants 'cause
obviously we're talking about this a lot
that there will be other needs for this
stuff but I don't know uh their specifics
and and if their family will be so
integral and tied into this decision
'cause when you leave uh a dental office
and you have that not non-compete um the
thought is is that you're leaving to
either go someplace else uh 'cause they
don't wanna to compete with you uh here in
the area But down here in Spring Hill I
mean if we don't get in somebody else and
another and probably a fourth and Adonis
will be here pretty soon just because the
the city is growing so fast So um we want
to be here first or second and we wanna be
able to provide the the best uh that Dr
McKitrick can do 'cause she's great Um but
not only will the city not get her
expertise but they may lose the Kerick
family So
Thank you for coming tonight and making um
your case We appreciate it Um I believe
Mr. Allen will have a resolution of some
kind at the voting session in two weeks Is
that fair to say Contingent upon technical
information being exchanged
My staff's been directed to help these
people with the intent of making a
recommendation for approval in two weeks
Great
Well thank you I will tell you your
3-year-old is roughly a thousand percent
better behave than mine would've been
tonight  So well thank you so much
You are doing something All right
Thank
You all very much Thank you all Thank you
Um I'm gonna go ahead skip to number four
so we can stay on sewer reserve allocation
request uh and go to 12 Stone Health
Partners Um I do believe we have a
representative from 12 Stone as well Um
Mr. Allen I know there's less information
from staff available on this but uh if you
have anything to update the board while
she's coming forward
It's essentially the same update We've
been talking with them we're working
through it and uh hopefully here in a
couple weeks we'll have a final
recommendation for you guys
Ma'am if you can remind us uh who you are
again and then Okay I am not again kind of
answer some of the same questions that you
heard What is what does 12 Stone do What's
what's the value add to the community Sure
Um my name's Cindy Nicks and I represent
12 Stone Health Partners We exist in the
community right here on Steven p Yoki
We've been there for five years Um we
provide infusion services Um last year we
saw 3000 patients in this community who
have chronic and complex conditions
Everything from MS to diabetes to Crohn's
Um there's just all kinds of conditions
that we see Our patients can be infused
anywhere from an hour to six hours And so
um I had submitted uh to Tim here some
information and I thought we had covered
everything because our patients kind of it
we may see 11 patients one day we may see
five the next it's all determined on our
scheduling and based on the length of um
infusions And so anyway we are just moving
our lease expired and last it expires at
the end of June but I started last July um
working on a new lease and we got it
signed in August at the end of August
And so we started moving forward with our
drawings and everything Um our lease was
up here and due to our neighbors we
couldn't control what was next door to us
It was a restaurant and a meat market And
we have all kinds of issues with that
being a healthcare company being next door
So we found this location and we started
our drawings and everything and turned our
permit in in November And I didn't find
out till December like mid-December that
it wasn't going forward I wasn't given a
notice that said you know I had a choice
of of stopping the process but you know we
were still moving forward and I think the
permit is in And so then we answering I
hired Tim to come in and answer the
questions And so that's where we are today
Can I ask a couple of questions You you
said you 3000 patients or so Yeah Across
the street annually What'd you do the year
before
Oh I would have to have that
I'm just generally asking I mean is is the
growing business growing where we would
expect sewer demand to to grow year over
year Or is 3000 fairly mature for a clinic
I
Think that's mature for us um in this new
clinic The reason that we're moving again
is because our lease is up We're not
giving a bigger footprint We're only ha
have two
Restrooms So you're not adding chairs or
infusion rooms or we have six PK rooms or
anything like that
We still have two restrooms and then we
have a sink in our med room and a sink and
um our break room So we're not adding to
our footprint at all We're just going from
one to the other
And of the 3000 patients I assume those
are unique patients and not patient visits
Unique patients
Yeah So of the 3000 patients I mean how
many are that's
How many came in and sat
In the seats Any any idea How many were
Huh Treatments
Treatments yes
Any idea how many were were Spring Hill
residents and what are the alternatives
for them if we've forced them to go
somewhere else Um
I'm not sure on I don't know who our
competitor is in this market I mean we
have some in Murfreesboro but we're
located in they would have to go somewhere
else if they stayed with us Mm-hmm
Which is maybe who their uh
prescriber would give They would go to
Mount Juliet or Bellevue or Skyline
Those would be their closest alternatives
Yeah Mm-hmm  And we're
talking about uh people who would be
treated potentially multiple times a week
right
Well maybe not maybe once a week But the
problem is we have a lot of people that
have mobility issues and so getting places
getting other places it can be difficult
for them And sometimes they have to come
through services who bring them to
locations So
Thank you Questions for Ms Nicks
As
Vice Go ahead
I was gonna try to speak just a bit I know
with some of the comparisons in the
previous ones I will as well as this one I
tried to give you a comparison fac for
this facility of what has been used
measured projected just to give you as a
comparator to for the Appendix C that
developmental services saying okay here's
what our baseline for establishing
allowance is That was the whole purpose of
giving you additional information For
example I in Ms Cindy's case uh to go
through Appendix C just straight up with
the number of patients doctors and
everything it's 300 just a shy of 350
gallons a day Their measured practice for
a similar facility which you can see the
numbers there would be 2 25 but they're
only actually using about a hundred
gallons a day as a engineer I know this
moratorium and stuff has come in late for
both practices as the outsider
I've got an existing office building
permitted as an office building It was
allotted something when it was built for a
use without changing the use of the
facility which is is an office building
for either tenant I I know y'all are
working through that and everybody y'all
are kind of as new to it as I am Almost
just y'all got a few rounds of this on I I
don't see it where it's adding burden to
what was already allocated with the
original Shell building But anyway I have
tried to provide the numbers and that
based on the appendix c as described with
Mr Will his uh lemme start with Mr. Allen
And I spoke with Mr Will last week with uh
their part also is going to say there was
going to use Appendix C for any
allocations They said we should be well
below anything they would have there with
either practice if you look at the two
thing So that's where I just wanted to
weigh in and try to clarify 'cause I know
uh alderman kind canari mentioned earlier
about some of the altered numbers That's
what I was doing just trying to give you
as much comparative information as I could
If it was a four day work week as many
medical facilities are or a five day week
here's what these would would work out to
based on the measured comparator
And we're five days a week so we don't
stray from that We don't change it
Thank you Uh vice Mayor Linville
Thank you mayor Um I know that it just
happens to be that basically the first two
requests that we got were from a Spring
Hill citizen and a Spring Hill local
business Um there will be ones in the
future where that is not the case Um but I
think as the board's making consideration
they should put a lot of weight into the
fact that they've been here present in the
community been serving citizens here in
Spring Hill And so as we're thinking about
what kinds of projects do we want to
allocate any sort of tenant improvements
for um I I think that should weigh heavily
Thank you Vice Mayor Linville Alderman
Fuquay
Thank you Mayor Um Mr. Little um moving
forward I don't see anything attached to
other one Would you stamp a letter similar
to the previous one on uh
I have sent one for Ms Nicks Is that what
you're asking Okay
I have sent that So so staff staff has it
They could provide it to us When we look
at a resolution they they have that with
The comparator with the appendix C much as
I referenced there
That that that's perfect That's one of the
things that I've been working um in lawn
with this I mean you have a business owner
here that that exists within the city
They're not looking for an expanse Um
we're we're not talking about a sewer
allocation necessarily Uh is the square
footage increasing Is there a new toilet A
new sink Is is something interchanging
differently between the location that
they're currently in and where they're
going
Um the location that they're proposing to
go is actually next to the southern roots
Um tenant space  Uh so it is in a
tenant space that has not had a previous
tenant And so therefore um they are their
uh sewer demand would be a new uh demand
And then the vacate the space that they
are vacating would then be eligible for
someone to move in with sewer demand of
equal or less than um okay the pre So so
that's we're not we're not taking this
sewer demand and moving it over there
We're taking this business moving it over
there resulting in new sewer demand
Meanwhile someone is eligible to slide in
and and impact the system similarly to
this business
Outside I missed that I thought once the
vacancy was pulled that was no longer
eligible So I misunderstood that Next
request is if that's the case with you you
all's office I mean and that should be
administratively and not seen by us Um
okay Makes sense Thank you
The one alderman Fuco the one the one
caveat to that is that they have uh
attempted to provide us some data that
might show a previous tenant use in that
space And that's part of what we're taking
into considering in in our evaluation of
it
I I guess what I gave you was a com a
comparison facility not necessarily one
that was there But I guess to go back to
what Ms Dara had mentioned it's not a new
service in my mind You've got an existing
building it was allocated for something So
it's not a new allocation So how I guess
when I do it
Sir prior prior to the sewer moratorium we
did not make individual allocations to
buildings or development I thought there
Was a burden already considered for the
facility with the infrastructure correct I
Mean when you Correct And then you
Build a building
And then with the consent order and the
moratorium the rules change right So that
that so
That's that's where
It's
Its a snapshot of actual versus projector
right So when the moratorium goes into a
place it's about what's actually active
and what's actually contributing out of
the building Okay Versus new usage on top
of that Within those that's within those
unfinished space
That's where I wanted to get my mind
around to help talk better with everybody
Which is why it's very challenging because
what part of what piece do we take into
account and how do we measure and account
that So that's those are the things that
we're working through And
'cause I know I get as a engineer
representing developers owners if you've
got an existing building you're not taking
a change of use a shell building you're
not you'll never think of it as this is
not covered already in the infrastructure
growth plan versus I'm trying to build
something outta the ground
Up at at the moment in time the moratorium
was acting It's not producing
Anything I'm when they were negotiating
leases
It was all potential
A consideration
We can make it real simple you know at the
time of the moratorium were there people
in there using the restroom or not If they
weren't using the restroom they're not in
If they were then maybe we can have a
conversation
Floor is still yours Alderman Fuquay
Um I um my my same comments to the the
previous West remains to um vice Mayor
Linville's Point do take a great deal of
consideration in regard to being arrested
Spring Hill The business exists Family
that's trying to to to um it does remain
the same That it's is going to be a a
burden on the system and cash it
reiterated um that that reserve is
something that we're gonna have very
hesitant to allocate Um I will certainly
consider it documentation Um I can't give
a a definite Yes
Thank you Alderman Fuqua Alderman Jimenez
Thank you mayor Um I know this is so
simple and and I know you guys have
thought about this way before me Can we
not just take their water bill and say Hey
over the past 12 months they've used X
gallons This is the average usage that we
were looking I'm assuming we're doing that
right Well
We don't I went to um the lady who manages
the building and it's not separately
It's not metered separate Okay So
That's so that's why 'cause that's the
first thing I did was to go get the
I I had to go find a compar comparable
comparator
Facility Got that So see that's why that
was so easy that there's no way I came up
with that for the first time The next
question is this uh I know you mentioned
many different illnesses that are covered
by your your business How many of those if
you were to guess just off the hip have
mobility issues that if we said Hey no
more you gotta go to Mount Juliet maybe
they couldn't drive there or they had to
rely on a ride to get there versus people
that just drive up jump out run in get
their service and run back out
I could get that number for you I would be
interested Yeah It's because I don't think
we have a whole lot of people who hop out
and you know go in right These most people
who come there are pretty ill and it's
chronic and ongoing Right It's not like
it's ever gonna be better Right It's just
to maintain their life you know and to
keep keep them alive And so um
And that's not the that's not the the
golden ticket right That's not the Hey I
got this It's yes You know Yeah Yeah But
what I'm saying is we're also talking
about the displacement of our citizens I
live here in the city of Spring Hill and
saying Hey sorry about your your service
that went away Um so that's a that's a
metric You know I know we have the
engineering side of things which is great
The engineering only tells a little bit of
the story right Um the challenge is as we
progress through what it is we're
progressing through we're gonna get more
sharp on the things we mm-hmm
We require demand in order
to make a decision The other side of this
is uh it was mentioned earlier we can't
say yes to everybody Right But when you're
talking about the comfort of the citizens
the medical provisions things like that I
think there's more consideration than if
you came to us and said Hey I wanna boil
50 extra hot dogs a day
And we have a hot dog saying here's what
we're gonna do Um and I get the part that
we're we're opening a new space and
someone's gonna take that space which now
we have to look at twofold right How much
are they gonna take there How much are we
gonna lose over here So um but having
those metrics and maybe this goes for
people in the future that are looking to
apply for the position you are is how many
people do we serve here What types of
people And uh what types of additional
services are we gonna provide to to to
help the community 'cause that's what I'm
interested in Mm-hmm  How are
we gonna better the community with what
little we have Because we will run out and
when when when we run out I need a speech
person obviously I
Guess I'm not trying to be disrespectful
I'm just trying to understand We've been
here five years serving this community
right Helping pe helping these patients
Yeah Who come right over here Mm-hmm
You know and
I'm gonna get somebody after you that's
been here 10 years Yeah And then someone
after that that's been here pitching that
is a consideration Don't get me wrong Yeah
And again I'm not saying no by any sense
of the means What I'm saying is show me
how many right Because that's we can agree
Listen if if your practice wasn't doing
well you'd have pulled out Right You
wouldn't be moving The other side of it is
we have to consider that and understand
how does this benefit the community At the
end of the day I have to look these other
citizens in the eyes Maybe the person
that's been doing it for two years that
their business started as a you know a
little office inside an office that now
expanded And maybe what they provide is
what the community really really needs
Right These are all just consideration
factors
And I believe that in the future when
people come with these it's like you're
preparing for court right You don't show
up for a speeding ticket saying Hey I'm
here Mm-hmm  Where you
speeding I don't know You show up with
some evidence mm-hmm  And I'm
just asking to expand that evidence So
when I make a decision and I face a
citizen in the street that we say no to I
can say we said yes to this because of
this Not because on that day I felt
generous and gave him some sewer capacity
right Sure Because that's not the answer
here So that's all I have
And I will say um our specialty is having
private suites You don't go sit in an open
area like you would at a hospital We
provide a service to where a person can go
into a private suite They have a recliner
They can bring a loved one or somebody to
attend with them There's a love you know
loves sitter chair there 'cause they're
there for hours We provide 'em with snacks
a TV with remote so they can have a
private time because it's some some of
these are really long Yeah And um so
anyway we provide a service so they don't
have to go on a hospital campus and be in
a open seat
Create comfort for people that desire Yes
exactly And listen I'm with you and I'm
I'm by no means saying no I'm not saying
Yes What I'm saying is give me something
to where when I face these citizens and
they say why this one I can say it's right
here We got 3000 people in this city of
Spring Hill that need their services Right
Versus uh I'm gonna use a mattress store
We hear about it all the time on Facebook
another mattress store another Mexican
restaurant Right Yeah Just give me
something to where when I make a
determination I base it off factual
information that I can tell my
constituents that I made this decision
because of this and I stand on this rock
because I believe in it Sure That's all
I'm asking
Okay Ms Nicks if you're able to pull like
patient zip codes okay Of those 3000 care
opportunities I I would I don't think
that's relatively that's not disclosing
any PHI or anything Right Um and if we see
3, 7, 1, 7 4 and 3, 7, 1, 7, 9 a whole
bunch I mean we'll we'll know that it's
it's Spring Hill people being directly
impacted Alderman Davis
Thank you mayor I'm gonna echo what
Alderman Jimenez and Mayor Fitter are
saying I I I want some more facts on that
I'd like also like to see um who who your
competition is from you guys and and how
you're different from the competition Just
you gave us a just a little nugget Hey
they have their own you know place here I
wanna know that So I understand Hey this
is a different thing This is you know um
and this is a question my next question
you may not have the answer to but do you
happen to know who will be going into that
space Mm-hmm And the only reason I ask
that is because if we're gonna allocate
sewer capacity you maybe the person going
into that space is gonna need less sewer
capacity And that could be an argument I
don't know Um but that's why I was asking
that question
No
Well it would have to be less or we'd be
right back here having that conversation
with them
Well yeah but but not the same Right I'm
talking
Correct
She's talking about
Nothing else Ms Nicks anything else from
your end
No just who would uh submit that
information to you I'll get my
Ms. Sanders and Mr. Allen uh who who
should be the recipient of the information
Um so
Far we've been asking that uh the
additional information be submitted to
both Mr. Allen and myself
There you go Okay
Alright Thank you so much
Thank you We'll see you in two weeks Work
session item discussion number three
discussion on the reservoir raw water
transmission line via TVA easement Mr
Brasfield I think this is your first time
in front of us too so good luck
Will comes to us from Thomas and
Hutton He's been with us for a few months
now and he's doing a great job of getting
the Spartan team organized
Good evening board Mr Mayor Thank you Uh
perhaps it might show up There we go Uh so
tonight I'm here to um present this
exhibit to show the illustration of the
existing TVA alignment uh the right of way
that's behind the water treatment plant
And um the proposal of the new raw water
transmission line Uh this we're hoping to
install within the easement uh up to the
reservoir So in this exhibit the blue line
from the bottom coming in is the existing
raw water line going into the water
treatment plant Uh the yellow line the red
and the upper yellow is the proposed um
line coming in to the reservoir Up the top
the red line is the actual TVA existing
TVA easement with the overhead power lines
And we're looking to install the raw water
line just on the outside of that Uh after
reviewing reviewing multiple routing
options uh the staff leaves that utilizing
this TVA easement uh provides the most
efficient and practical approach for
construction Uh this alignment minimizes
impacts to the surrounding properties and
offers uh direct path to the reservoir And
we are requesting the board's approval
tonight to proceed with further
coordination and design efforts based on
this proposed approach
Thank you Mr Brassfield here looking for
head nods tonight Let me just ask um to go
from the reservoir back to the water
treatment plant would we just run it in
reverse
Yes There'd be multiple multiple lines
laying parallel each
Other And from uh wastewater reclamation
plant up to the reservoir Are we still
talking about going up by the creek Yes
Vice Mayor Linville
Thank you mayor Um I'm gonna ask really
probably an elementary question but uh the
TBA easement is uh for electrical
infrastructure Is there any issue with
running water lines through something
that's built for electrical infrastructure
Uh their requirements have uh to stay away
from structures within 25 foot So our
proposal will be right on the very edge of
the right of way Okay And we haven't went
out and pulled a tape measure but it's
significant uh distance away So we would
actually have to um procure a right of way
easement from the community but we're not
encumbering anymore property so we're
gonna be within that property that's
already designated as an easement Um just
go underground
Very good
We uh this is taken right out of the
playbook from the uh Cumberland Pipeline
project Um these guys recognize that hey
we got an opportunity We've been having
some conversations There's concern about
making sure that we have enough separation
and trying to run all that just through to
the north just through those meadow brick
open spaces uh could get a little bit
challenging with the size of the lines
we're essentially talking about So these
guys brought it to me I that's a great
idea
Seems like a path of lease resistance to
the treatment plants to man Makes a lot of
sense
Thank you vice Mayor Alderman Warner
Thank you mayor Uh the question I have and
the question I'm gonna get because I'm
already getting it from Brandon Woods
residence is when that reservoir is being
built uh and is gonna affect those
neighborhoods um to clear that what kind
of effect is this pipeline digging gonna
have effect on those neighborhoods that it
runs right through or behind Um is this a
digging or will there possibly be finding
going on uh to build this
Uh to be determined That's why we're
asking to proceed with further
investigation
Uh possible timeline for and I know this
is vague and I don't hold you to it Uh
possible timeline for the length this will
take to put this pipeline in
To be determined
Okay Uh uh I understand
That's part of our further design criteria
and
So there hasn't been any surveying of that
land yet or
Anything like that No sir This is just
asking for a pool to move forward with to
get started with all that
Very good Very good Thank you
Thank you Alderman Warner Alderman Fuqua
Thank you Mayor Uh alderman Warner I can
uh guarantee you being familiar with the
property that there's going to be a um a
lot of blasting I'm familiar with the
property I've hiked it Uh after we
purchased it I went onto the property and
from that yellow line in its entirety is
all through rock And I'm as gonna make
some assumptions being familiar with the
development uh that you see on the screen
there Um that that site is mainly rock so
it's going to be significant onto my
question with that with the layout of this
uh I know that no structures can be built
within 75 feet of the furthest line uh on
those transmission lines Are we going
directly on it um under are we gonna go
next to it Like how close will we be to
property lines And I know that you can't
fully answer that but I'm I am curious to
uh alderman Warner's point uh going
through I guess that would be is it
Royalton Woods Yes Um on how close we
would be to essentially backyards
Uh we would utilize the standard practice
of I think it's 10 foot on either side of
the pipe and for the utility right of way
But we would back that up to the edge of
TVA's So basically if this is the edge of
TVAA house is here our line would be over
here to where our right of way does not
cross over
Okay So it wouldn't be it would be X
amount of feet off of of vertical
structures Yes Correct Not outside of
their line I guess Transmission line
I'm not fully understand what you're
saying I'm
The the overhead line Mm-hmm
So you know they they're booms and then
they have the the outfall Right So we
would be under that rather outside of that
Pretty much yes Okay Cool Thanks
Alderman Canari
Thanks Thanks mayor Uh I think I know the
answer to this but I'm gonna ask it anyway
Um what ha have we explored uh the
possibility of tdot since we're gonna bury
the pipe uh using some of their easement
for before they widen the uh 65 there
Uh I don't believe there's any tdot uh
right away It's gonna be ENC covered in
this project with a line for TVA
We would
Not with 65
I mean would are we gonna buy the the the
yellow line Are we gonna have to purchase
that property We
Already did That's already the part of the
reservoir property Yes
Okay Oh that acreage Oh take it back
This is basically just connecting the dots
between what we already own and the right
of way and the Got it correct
I missed that
I do want to reiterate something that Will
said earlier though We we're looking for
the head nod so that we can make
applications start this process It takes
some time to work through it with them And
if they say yes to it and allow us to go
forward we'll still have to go through
some easement acquisition So there's this
big of an easement there and we're talking
about being right on the edge just inside
of it We would still likely have to go
back and negotiate that easement for that
portion of the water line even within the
TVA easement because it's likely only been
negotiated to this point as an electrical
easement And so we'd have to get the water
easement stacked on top of that So there
still would be some outlay That's why we
wanna start the conversation now So we're
getting all this stuff in place as we uh
get ready to ramp up for construction This
just will save us a lot of time later
I think you got head nods tonight Go get
after it Thank you Thank
You
Uh last item for the evening discussion on
a legislative agenda Mr Napier
Thank you Mr Mayor uh members of the board
um this is staff's attempt to understand
the direction that you have as it relates
to engaging during the legislative session
that we're currently in uh pursuant to
what uh we would recommend you consider
for your priorities of the uh the
legislative efforts of the city Uh this
would be super helpful for staff to
understand so that number one we can uh
follow your lead and uh carry out the
dialogue to hopefully move forward with
respect to these important items But also
with regard to items that you may not see
on the list that you would like to uh have
considered as we attempt to uh advocate
and work with uh uh both you and the
legislators that represent us in the in
the assembly to hopefully do good things
from a legislative standpoint over the
next uh throughout the session And so with
that if there are any questions or
directions otherwise we'd be happy to
entertain those
Mr Napier do you want kind of clip through
them one by one just as a highlight of
what the what the legislative action would
be
Absolutely Uh I I can do that your Honor
Thank you Um pertaining to the um tax
split with cities and towns as it relates
to the uh historic rate of shared sales
tax uh we are hopeful that we can advocate
for restoring that rate to the full 7%
versus just what's allocated currently to
the 6% And that's what that uh first
bullet entails The second bullet uh
entails the idea of giving more
flexibility to the single article tax cap
that's currently in place even if it means
being consistent with what it is the state
currently enjoys uh in the same taxing
dimension um as it relates to um transfer
tax receipts We are hopeful that uh those
receipts can be shared back to counties as
well as cities and towns if possible uh
with regard to legislative ideas that may
come forward in that uh in that respect
Um as it relates to construction delivery
we are hopeful that design build can be
among the toolbox that cities and towns
use like is the case with uh construction
manager at risk And as well with respect
to what the state and IDB agencies
currently enjoy with design build Um we
are hopeful that uh we legislation that uh
requires cities and towns to participate
in providing for cost sharing for
ambulance services um be opposed wherein
currently cities and towns do not have to
incur those types of cost sharing
requirements And then finally uh with
respect to efforts to make local elections
partisan we're hopeful that uh the board
would see fit to oppose those efforts as
well There's a couple items that uh we
would like to keep an eye out for that
don't appear to be so far uh being put
forward in in draft bills And you can see
those two at the bottom of your list in
your memo
Thank you Thank you Mr Napier Uh just tack
on that a little bit Uh the governor gave
his state of the state address uh this
evening while we're sitting here I was
hoping um to find the uh budget His budget
gets released uh with the state of the
state address It's it's not posted online
yet but as far as restoring the state
shared sales tax removal of the single
article tax cap or or a share of the
transfer tax receipts um I think what Mr
Napier and Mr. Carter and myself have all
heard from a variety of of lobbyists and
legislatures is is those items are uh
either likely to all move together in
tandem um but the fiscal note on them is
sufficient enough that it's not if it's
not included in the governor's budget um
it's it's essentially a non-starter Um uh
I mean it's it's to the tune of around
$300 million in total
Uh so if the governor included in his
budget it's got a chance If the governor
did not include it in his budget uh it's
it's probably dead for this fiscal year Um
but that uh that should be available uh
later this evening or tomorrow um around
the uh IDB uh in in design build uh for
municipalities Uh I believe staff and
myself have seen some draft legislation Um
I know it was filed on the Senate side uh
that would suggest it would be available
to municipalities of a certain size uh for
projects of a certain dollar value and
greater um the house filing bill deadline
is tomorrow Um I've not seen a house bill
number on it yet I don't know if you have
but um based off who the Senate sponsor is
I'd be shocked if there's not a house Bill
uh companion with it
Um we do have a lot of local noise uh from
some of our county commissioners
specifically our Williamson County
Commissioners uh around expecting
municipalities to start to cost share and
ambulance services Uh by state law uh
counties are required to provide ambulance
coverage Williamson County has been here
for uh eight years or so Uh and there are
two county commissioners in particular who
are um very vocal about uh their
opposition to that state law and standards
So um personally it feels unlikely that uh
a a couple of uh uh county commissioners
are are gonna get a statewide bill changed
Uh but but I think it's something we
definitely need to watch on Um and given
the added complexity of being in two
counties it's it's certainly gonna be
important for us as well Um but I'll think
of it uh as we talk here Uh alderman Fuqua
I'm I'm sorry
I know what it is So see all that had to
do was calling you Uh there were um Sumner
County Murray County Williamson County uh
a couple other counties in in west
Tennessee uh that tried to push for uh a
bill uh that would give uh counties a seat
at uh annexation votes Um that any
annexation within the UGB after a
municipal approval would then go to a
county for approval as well Um I have not
seen a Senate bill filed on that I have
not seen a house bill filed on that Um
last I saw they were um they were pursuing
potential bill sponsors and and they were
kind of down to the bottom of the barrel
So um I think we'll continue to uh hear
noise on that locally Uh 'cause Murray and
Williamson County Commissioners or or
talking that way um candidates for Murray
County Mayor are talking that way Um but I
have not seen a bill on it So alderman
Fuqua
Thank you mayor Um I am and haven't read
through it yet but uh looking at um
information from Mayor Sheila but uh the
the impact fee discussion is now gone away
to a a real uh property transfer tax
Yeah that's the third bullet in in the
Middle It is Okay Yeah Missed that one
Yeah And that's got like $155 million
fiscal note So if Governor Lee included it
it's got a shot If it doesn't the fiscal
note will probably kill the bill Vice
Mayor Linville
Thank you mayor Um I do think from a
personal view I think all of the uh the
things that were highlighted in the memo
are worthy of us putting some effort
behind Um I think the one that I would
highlight is uh the share of transfer tax
receipts going toward to counties and
cities for road funding Um and this allows
me an opportunity to get in my soapbox a
little bit but um the way that I've said
this multiple times but the way that the
state currently funds road projects is not
sustainable for the long term to meet the
meet the needs that that Tennessee has If
if we're going to be a state that
continues to um to grow and attract uh
businesses opportunities jobs the way it
currently is um and so whether uh I I
think this is a great great thing that is
being put forward
This is uh goes in line with what was
proposed by Williamson Inc And Williamson
County uh last term Um but whether it's
whether it's this or whether it's some
other solution um the state we have to
rethink what road funding looks like at
the state level in a serious way Um
because the the longer that we we just
punt the ball down the field the more the
further and further the state gets behind
Um 'cause you know we all experience the
the needs that we have in Spring Hill for
transportation investment Um but the the
thing is is that that's not unique to any
part of the state Uh every part of the
state has the same same needs that we're
feeling And so uh there's really just a a
need for us to in a um thoughtful
meaningful way change how road funding is
happening in Tennessee
Thank you Vice Mayor Linville I I think
depending on who you ask at at tdot we
have somewhere between 58,000,000,070 $7
billion worth of uh roadway infrastructure
needed today Uh one highlight that I was
able to find uh outta the governor's state
of the state address is he's gonna
allocate an additional 425 million towards
roadway infrastructure And 425 million is
uh a lot of money certainly more money
than I have but uh it doesn't make much of
a dent into 58 billion So um I think what
direction Mr Napier here is looking for Um
if there are particular items that we feel
we wanna formally support or oppose uh we
could do so by uh resolution Not gonna um
ask anybody to to be put on the spot
tonight And unless there's something you
just feel passionate about or have a soap
box about Vice Mayor Linville um but I
would advise you within uh you know the
next week to 10 days uh if there are
particular items um that that you feel
strong about supporting or opposing uh get
that information to Mr. Carter or Mr
Napier Uh so we can work our uh various
sources and then we can potentially have a
resolution or seven together for the
voting session uh and get these passed
before we really start working in into
committee hearings Mr. Carter please I
think it it would be best to route those
through
Me and then I can
Let's do that then Anything else on this
All right Round table discussion Alderman
Fuqua you said you had something for us
Yes mayor Thank you Um just wanna bring up
in round table with BFAC I brought some
last minute uh items and um directors to
Ms. Holden I wanted to share with uh this
board So we have talked and I guess Mr.
Allen I probably should have reached out
uh to you today but I got busy My
apologies Uh in regards to uh the water
and sewer uh project and expansions we
have talked about a number which is $200
million Um we have not formally started
the process to really hone in some actuals
Um looking at some of the documents that
we've been sharing through BFAC I have
some concerns And Mr. Allen we've talked
about this of uh what we're gonna be
spending and water and sewer and things
like going up a TVA easement that I expect
it's gonna be about $8 million uh by some
simple math that I did uh on what we can
do we're moving forward with conversations
on a library
We're moving you know along with
conversations about CSA and and other
things I am very afraid uh of getting to a
point to where water and sewer is gonna
cap us on uh other projects And without
the information of what those real costs
will be uh I think that we're making some
decisions arbitrarily I could be
completely wrong but I think having that
in front of us and then making changes uh
with the market on hard numbers is a
little better than being speculative Uh
Mr. Allen I'd love to hear your comments
towards that And maybe a timeline that we
could start honing in on uh some of those
things That way when we make good
financial decisions move forward with
things like a library or escape park or
anything else that's on the uh CIP list Uh
with that uh I've heard some um rumblings
with um CSA which is essentially item
number one uh for water and sewer and
getting that and that we're having some
difficulties uh getting that funded uh
adequately and appropriately
So um one of the ideas that I had and I
reached out to Mr. Carter today is water
and sewer is taking a space uh that public
works currently holds and they're having
to uh move to CSA as the probability of uh
wastewater dollars or wastewater uh
funding buying the real property from
public works that way we can have this
facility over here fully constructed in
its capacity uh as identified in CIP I
know six months ago when we talked it
seemed like uh we had the funding sources
and and things ready to roll Uh we're at a
point to where that doesn't exist today Um
I wanna move forward with this You know uh
some of you got elected it was identified
in your um election process that you were
go-getters and it was time to go in and
make projects happen Uh we're gonna have
to get creative
So uh one of my ideas I think uh Mr
Carter's gonna call the comptroller to see
what the uh legal capabilities of that
transfer is for that real property if we
can or cannot do it Um Mr Napier I would
love to have a conversation um soon and
and kind of where the hiccup was and where
we're at Um a little better communication
for the board ongoing of where we're at
with these things Uh because as they come
to me with questions I can't answer 'em
and that's not a position And then last
thing is uh funding We just spent three
and a half million dollars on a
construction team We have two identified
projects One that looks like's half funded
the Battle Creek that's fully funded but
we need to look in its future um for
different funding mechanisms to keep them
busy So um Ms. Holden has said that she's
going to funding that way When we're done
with one thing we have the very next thing
to go to Uh but that's the update from my
session
Thank you Alderman Fuquay Um if that is
legal and it passes an auditor smell test
it is a very creative solution
Can I respond to that real quick Just to
save us some time
You already know the answer
Yeah  Yeah So a couple things Uh
when we went through uh the design process
um it's been a few months back but Mr
Scroggins approached me and said Hey we
need some more room for the fleet building
and some things like that As we were
looking at the best layout of the site So
water and sewer actually gave up their
portion of the site so the public works
could take on more of what they needed and
accommodate it over there So in the
current proposed plan and how things are
going forward water and sewer has no
involvement with that property whatsoever
So I I don't know how you could justify us
paying a portion of the building
construction when we have no intention of
being out there period Uh what we have
offered is uh to assist with um uh some
in-house construction on the water lines
to serve the site as well as um we had
quite a a series of conversations about
trying to do the same thing on the sewer
We have some concerns about some of the
sewer construction So I believe that's
gonna be uh subbed out to a contractor
still be uh obviously watched by Mr
Scroggins and his team as they do it Uh
but I had offered that the water and sewer
fund would still uh pay for that portion
of the construction to at least offset
that cost So there's some things that
we'll have to do to make sure that that's
done properly that that's certainly okay
but we would have no justification to
offset the the vertical construction
'cause we're not planning to be part of it
Uh correct Just to give you a little
clarity on uh where I was going So public
Works is relocating over there uh leaving
uh what I estimate by Google Maps about 19
and a half acres for the sewer expansion
So uh the transfer of sewer funds would go
for the purchase of the 19 and a half
acres Uh public Works currently utilizes
Spring Hill Water would buy 19 and a half
acres from Public Works Public works on
the site
That Spring Hill Water already
Owns
Where Public Works is currently located
On the site that Spring Hill Water already
owns
Like I said if it's legal and passes an
audit test it's potentially a really
creative solution
I'll make sure and bring my boxing gloves
for that meeting
Yeah And creative But um we we have a
problem on our hands and looking for a
solution no matter what it takes I'm uh
I'm open to uh all suggestions and I I
would expect that everybody in the room be
too
Alderman Hartwell alderman Warner alderman
Jimenez Thank
You mayor Uh I'm just gonna introduce
everyone to my little pet peeve that I
have Uh it's regarding well business
owners watch this Um if you have an
American flag in front of your office or
your building please take care of it If
it's not serviceable any longer please
pull it down Uh I get to drive to my
office each and every day and I see many
many flags that should have been taken
down long long ago Um an American flag is
not there to be a decoration An American
flag represents something It represents
sacrifice from people who have made
sacrifice people who will make sacrifice
and people that do sacrifice To have a
representation of that poorly taken care
of doesn't mean you don't care It just
means you may have forgotten that you put
it out there So do me a favor If you're
watching this take a chance tomorrow
Go out take a look at my at at your flag I
know mine's mine's in good shape And ask
yourself is it discolored Is it torn Is it
ripped Is it is it hung properly And if
the answer is no pull it down and replace
it If the answer is I don't know the
internet will tell you or make a phone
call If you need to retire a flag I know
there's boxes here There's boxes at every
fire station Uh I have a box Please just
do this country a service in your state of
service and make sure that your flags are
serviceable And that's all I got
Thank you Alderman Jimenez Alderman Canari
Uh thanks Mayor I've got two items First
uh for Mr. Allen if it's our Land and
Public works Was there all this time Get
the back rent if this goes through
that's one I mean come on you're the
landlord
Alright so so number number two would be
um uh uh I wanna set the record straight I
said something at the last meeting the
last BOMA meeting in December about I
request for public information I said
something to the effect that I was still
waiting for some of the information I
didn't get it all Well Mr. Carter And and
Ms Goad uh followed up with me a couple
weeks ago or maybe last week and pointed
out the fact that well I hadn't read it
read it carefully Everything was there in
the packet that I got back So I wanna make
a public apology to Miss Goad and Miss
Stall for the excellent work They did hard
work putting that package together which
was I forget how many emails it was but it
was a lot And um and uh I'll I'll do
better in the in the future
Thank you for saying that Alderman Canari
alderman Davis
Thank you mayor I just wanted to give uh
the city and our board an update on our
this is a little bit of a happy note of
our 4th of July celebration that's coming
up um that the SpringHill Chamber is um
taking the charge on for us I just wanted
to say our location set fire and and Brent
part of this too uh firework Company Set
Entertainment secured Uh we did they did
apply for the grant which was denied
They're gonna apply again for the grant
Grant sponsorship and donation
opportunities are becoming available
Signage is going out around town and to
HOAs And you can also drop by the Spring
Hill Chamber if you would like to partake
in that And uh help donate towards this
celebration I know they're trying to raise
funds for it so we're excited uh to see
how that is and to celebrate together as a
community America's birthday
Thank you Alderman Davis Alderman Murray
Thank you mayor Uh I just had a real quick
thank you to all of our leadership our
staff all the hard workers that uh really
did a just a fantastic job as we've tried
to navigate through this Uh I will call it
an unprecedented 'cause It's been more
years than I can remember since we had an
ice storm like that But uh just thank you
so much for your dedication to the city I
want to thank uh the citizens that reached
out to other neighbors that lost power
Maybe they didn't have power just a real
um total effort on this city being able to
take on the storm uh do what we could and
uh try to get things remedied as quickly
as possible For that I just want to say
thank you for all of that work and uh we
really appreciate what you do each and
every day but in times like that even
thank you more I know thank you's probably
not enough but thank you more for how you
step up time in and time out uh when the
city is in need So thank you
Thank you Alderman Murray vice Mayor
Linville
Thank you Mayor Um I just want to
piggyback on one of Alderman Fuquas
comments We talked about this uh briefly
at BAC as well Um but in regards to some
of the the sewer uh discussions moving
public works all of those sorts of things
um I don't think it's a secret You know we
talked about it for an extended period of
time today with multiple tenant
improvements that the sewer you know
expansion project project Swift is a
critical path for us as a city And I know
that you know we have uh we're aligning
resources towards that end Um you know
Spartan team all that sort of stuff Um but
there's anything uh that that we need from
a board level to help accelerate the
process and help to make sure that we're
keeping things on track Um certainly wanna
be kept kept apprised of that and make
sure that that our staff has all the
resources that we have need available to
make sure that we deliver that project as
quickly as we can for for uh citizens And
so I know that's uh that's been kind of a
clear direction of the board And again
just wanna reiterate if there is anything
else that we can do or anything we need to
be aware of uh